We're gonna use our website and
we're now gonna display the counter on
the website and we're going to
increment the counter on the website.
So let's go back let's
open up our index.ts and
of course the first thing we need to
do is going to go up to this nice
little address here and
we need to replace it.
I'm fairly lazy, I don't want to have
to keep on putting in new addresses,
so let's just do a simple process
.env.CONTRACT_ADDRESS, right?
So this is gonna grab our contract
address off of our environment variable.
Now remember, if you were keen enough
to looking at that Webpack config file,
I actually use .env to scrape off our
environment and to bring it into Node.
And so what we'll do is we'll go here into
our base directory and create a .env file.
We'll create a CONTRACT_ADDRESS=
we'll go to our network,
grab our last counter address,
copy it, go back, paste it in.
So now, when we start Webpack,
it's gonna take this .env file,
grab out the contract address and
put it into our environment.
And of course have some code inside
the Webpack config that will actually
replace that.
I assume most people
already know about .env.
Nothing here should be too shocking,
right?
Everyone's kind of used it.
If you haven't used it, it's fantastic.
They have it in multiple languages right?
You have it in Go.
I'm sure you have it
in other ones as well.
It's just a beautiful thing.
And so we won't be using too much of it,
but we will be using some of it.
Was there a question right there?
Okay, so now we have that.
Second, we the do something with this,
right?
Cuz before it was Hello but now we're
gonna be talking to our contract address.
So we do need something to change.
So I think everybody here that's in the
audience you should be able to just type
this up yourself, right?
You should be able to replace function
hello with count which is gonna be
a public function and that's it.
And then of course you're
gonna have a get counter which
is gonna be a public view returns utnt32,
there we go.
So we kind of know what's
happening right here.
This is our interface of these two
functions that we want to call into.
And then lastly we have our same
provider that we've been using thus far.
So now it's time to do a little bit of
like we're gonna go right back into all
that HTML link.
So let's create a couple elements to
display that, I'm gonna create a div to
display the number and
a button to allow you to click it.
So I'm just gonna do a const el
= document.createElement for
those that have only lived in the React
World this a little scary using the raw
documents stuff, but we're gonna do it.
It's gonna be fun.
And then we're gonna go we'll create
a little nice a sync function called set
value or setCounter.
I know you shouldn't ever create
functions inside functions cuz you keep
producing functions, but for
us we're just doing this isn't that we're
not creating enterprise code here, right?
We're gonna go el.innerHTML.
Remember we like to live
dangerously around here and
we're gonna await our counter contract
which we currently call hello.
We should probably rename that and
call getCounter there we go and of course,
I should probably just rename hello
to counter, beautiful, fantastic.
We're gonna call setCounter.
So that way we have a nice
set counter at the beginning.
And then we need to create one
more element for the button.
I don't think I'm doing anything that
people already don't know about.
So I'm just gonna kind
of speed through this.
I assume I don't really need to
explain much of these things, right?
This is just some JavaScript,
button.innerText = increment type.
There we go.
So
we know to increment and
of course button on click equals function.
We don't care what happens in here.
Let's go a sync function
await counter.count.
Remember so this is where we're
gonna actually do the incrementing.
So we're going to counter once and
then we're gonna set the counter,
that sounds about right, right?.
I'm gonna erase that last line because we
don't obviously want to have anything from
hello world on there and then we're gonna
have to go document.body.appendChild.
And let's append the el and
then of course let's append the button.
There we go.
So now we have the elements
we have the button.
We created them both here, right?
We created everything, we get the value
out of our counter by calling
the function, we've called this
function by specifying it right here.
Here's the interface to the function.
We call it once to get the value.
We create a button.
We set the text to increment.
When it gets clicked, we call count.
Then, boom, we set the counter.
So there we go.
That's pretty much identical
to our deploy script.
With a little bit of UI
logic on top of it, right?
Not a lot but it's fairly straightforward.
So that means we are only have to do one
last thing, which is we have to go to our
webpack we have to destroy it and
then we have to relaunch it.
Reason being of course, because we just
added a .nfile with our contract address.
It doesn't currently have our environment.
I don't know how to refresh webpacks
environment variables on the fly,
as you know my build system
wasn't that advanced.
So therefore every time we change that
value, we have to make sure we destroy and
relaunch webpack.
I'm telling you this,
because I'm gonna forget.
And so when it breaks down, someone goes,
did you remember to do that?
And then I'll remember to do that and
then we'll all first try together.
Fantastic.
So let's go back to our beautiful website
we've been making, which is right here,
which currently says
hello front end masters.
And I'm gonna open up the console just
in case we have anything go wrong.
And I'm gonna refresh the site.
Look at that, nothing went wrong
we have the one right here,
we have the increment button cuz
remember we launched the contract and
then incremented it once,
beautiful we've done it.